Growing up in Canada, I had a view of what hospitality was.
Hospitality was, have the brothers and sisters over, get to know them, share a meal together,
something that I planned to offer to them.
I don't think I ever realized how much I had been influenced by my own culture and defining
when I thought hospitality was.
There has a very big effect on us.
In our culture, young ones are not trusted very much.
They are not given responsibility.
I have seen the effect of the culture inside the congregation, especially when the question
of giving younger ones more privileges of service or assignments came up.
When it was discussed among the elders, it would not really be considered.
And so the desire would be for him to wait a little bit longer.
Not sure a little more, gain more life experience.
I also thought the same way.
When I looked back now, I realized that it really wasn't right because Jehovah's thinking
isn't like that.
When I attended the special convention in Ukraine, my view of what hospitality was changed completely.
When we get off the plane, all the brothers are there.
We see the love we're overwhelmed by, just the quantity of the brothers that are there.
Their smiles, their expressions.
As the days went on, it was clear they were just looking for what we needed.
And it was more than just giving us some food and spending some time with us.
There were so many other things that they did that covered every one of our needs when
I'm not sure that their own needs were being covered at times.
They knew they just wanted to be there and they'd figure out the rest when they got there.
And that really impressed myself and my wife.
I do remember one night getting back to the hotel and we had a moment to just really think
about what we'd seen that day and started to ask ourselves if we'd ever gone to the
same extent.
Where I'm from, I feel we tend to stick with what we're very comfortable with.
I realized that I really had unknowingly been putting limits on hospitality because of
what I was comfortable with, because of the culture where I grew up.
Whereas the experience in Ukraine helped me to see that we can break that barrier down
so much faster.
We could definitely feel that this was what Jehovah's U of hospitality was.
It was about looking for what others need and filling those needs.
In time, my thinking changed because I realized Jehovah's way of thinking.
The videos produced by Jehovah's organization and what I watched in them helped my view
to change.
I could actually see what a young brother or a young elder could do.
From the past, we used to focus on experience.
I would too, but now Jehovah's viewpoint is more important than just experience.
Jehovah doesn't only focus on experience, but also on spiritual qualities.
I came to realize that.
So after we experienced the special convention in Ukraine and returned home, we decided
we need to consider this more as a family worship project.
We realized we did have to make some adjustments.
We realized we did want to do more.
So we had to set specific goals to be able to strip away our previous definition of hospitality
and start extending it beyond what we were comfortable with.
It takes work to continually break free from the limits that we might set for ourselves.
And it was something we realized we need to make some changes if we were going to maintain
Jehovah's you of hospitality moving forward.
Of course, the influence of the culture doesn't go away overnight.
We still need to work hard on it.
We still have to change because traces of the culture can still be left over.
But I realized we definitely need to get rid of it.
Now I'm really pleased to serve with those young brothers, to talk with them and to see
their potential as Jehovah season.
We can also see that Jehovah is very pleased too.
Jehovah's overjoyed.
He's proud to see what those young brothers do.